Term Entry for Java Math Method: *`addExact()`* (#1155)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/math-methods/terms/addExact/addExact.md

---
Title: '.addExact()'
Description: 'Returns the sum of its arguments.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Function'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Arithmetic'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`Math.addExact()`** method returns the sum of its arguments. It will throw an *exception* if the result overflows either int or long. This function is `static`, henceforth object creation is not required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`Math.addExact()`** method returns the sum of its arguments. It will throw an [exception](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/errors) if the result overflows either `int` or `long`. This function is `static`, therefore object creation is not required.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo

> Math.addExact(type a, type b)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Math.addExact(a, b)
```

```

> Here `type` is the datatype of the argument passed to the function. **`Math.addExact()`** function accepts two arguments from the user and the datatype must be same for both the arguments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Math.addExact()` method accepts two arguments from the user and the datatype must be same for both the arguments. 
```

Also, mention what types of augments it can accept.

> + If any one argument is `Integer.MAX_VALUE` or `Long.MAX_VALUE`, or if the desired result exceeds _int_ or _long_, then it will throw an exception. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ If any one argument is `Integer.MAX_VALUE` or `Long.MAX_VALUE`, or if the desired result exceeds `int` or `long`, then it will throw an exception. 
```

---
Title: '.addExact()'
Description: 'Returns the sum of its arguments.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Function'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Arithmetic'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`Math.addExact()`** method returns the sum of its arguments. It will throw an [exception](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/errors) if the result overflows either `int` or `long`. This function is `static`, therefore object creation is not required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`Math.addExact()`** method returns the sum of its arguments. It will throw an [exception](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/errors) if the result overflows either `int` or `long`.
```

I don't think the last sentence is necessary since all `java.lang.Math` methods are static.

## Syntax

```pseudo
Math.addExact(a, b)
```

> The `Math.addExact()` method accepts two arguments from the user and the datatype must be same for both the arguments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `Math.addExact()` method accepts two arguments from the user and the data type must be same for both the arguments.
```

> The `Math.addExact()` method accepts two arguments from the user and the datatype must be same for both the arguments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both parameters `a` and `b` must either be of type `int` or `long`.
```

> - If any one argument is `Integer.MAX_VALUE` or `Long.MAX_VALUE`, or if the desired result exceeds `int` or `long`, then it will throw an exception.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An exception is thrown if either parameter is equal to `Integer.MAX_VALUE` or `Long.MAX_VALUE` or the result exceeds type `int` or `long`.
```

## Example

> This example uses `.addExact()` to return the sum for `(a, b)`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This following example returns the sum of two values with the `.addExact()` method:
```

```java

> public class Main {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Main.java
public class Main {
```

---
Title: '.addExact()'
Description: 'Returns the sum of its arguments.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Function'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Arithmetic'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`Math.addExact()`** method returns the sum of its arguments. It will throw an [exception](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/errors) if the result overflows either `int` or `long`.

## Syntax

```pseudo
Math.addExact(a, b)
```

Both parameters `a` and `b` must either be of type `int` or `long`.

> - An exception is thrown if either parameter is equal to `Integer.MAX_VALUE` or `Long.MAX_VALUE` or the result exceeds type `int` or `long`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An exception is thrown if either parameter is equal to `Integer.MAX_VALUE` or `Long.MAX_VALUE` or the result exceeds type `int` or `long`.
```
